### Problem and Constraints

Hiding aspects of running code from the debugger is the unfortunate default for
``vscode-python``. Users who come from other environments (IPDB, PyCharm, etc.) are
presented with a disorienting absence of expected information that can lead to a
distrust of the product.

Generally, where hiding relevant detail is the default, the mechanism to expose that
detail should be obvious and be accessible in close proximity to where such detail would
otherwise appear. VSCode itself presents no opportunity to cure this defect directly,
which makes the selected default even more confusing.

To date, the casual response has been to point users to the documentation. This is not
helpful to newcomers who may not even be aware that such documentation exists or casual
users who have not revisited the documentation in awhile. Remote documentation is a poor
substitute for proper interface design.

Changing the default was considered [and
rejected](https://github.com/microsoft/debugpy/issues/828#issuecomment-1023430682),
apparently because VSCode largely targets less sophisticated developers. This is
accepted without challenge as the research leading to this conclusion is likely
proprietary.

### Solution

So what *can* we do?

One slightly removed but prominent surface controlling debugger behavior is
``launch.json``, which is both accessible and reasonably connected to the debugging
workflow. Unfortunately,
[``justMyCode``](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/debugging#_justmycode) (the
non-intuitively named setting that hides some stack frames and breakpoints by default)
does not appear in the default configuration.

Without  substantial reworking of the debugger environment itself, the best identified
compromise available at the time of this writing is to add ``"justMyCode": true``
explicitly to new configurations in ``launch.json``. Because it is not obvious what this
setting does by name alone, it should be accompanied by a comment that explains its
function and links to its documentation (ideally, from within VSCode itself to avoid
requiring a network connection).

[microsoft/vscode-python#18471](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-python/pull/18471)
adds an explicit entry to default configurations. Perplexingly, there is no mechanism to
add an accompanying comment or link to the documentation. That deficiency is identified
in [microsoft/vscode#142533](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/142533), which
must be handled in a subsequent PR.

### Commentary

This serves as a cautionary tale to professional product designers and developers
everywhere to select defaults carefully, with a diverse human audience in mind, and to
provide ergonomic mechanisms to discover and manipulate those defaults.
